Arc 78, extends 26 URI scheme Key Reg (#314)
algorandfoundation/ARCs: ARCs/arc-0078.md

## Specification

### General format

As in [ARC-26](./arc-0026.md), URIs follow the general format for URIs as set forth in <a href="https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3986">RFC 3986</a>. The path component consists of an Algorand address, and the query component provides additional transaction parameters.

Elements of the query component may contain characters outside the valid range. These are encoded differently depending on their expected character set. The text components (note, xnote) must first be encoded according to UTF-8, and then each octet of the corresponding UTF-8 sequence must be percent-encoded as described in RFC 3986. The binary components (votekey, selkey, etc.) must be encoded with base64url as specified in <a href="https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4648.html#section-5">RFC 4648 section 5</a>.

### ABNF Grammar

```
algorandurn     = "algorand://" algorandaddress [ "?" keyregparams ]
algorandaddress = *base32
keyregparams    = keyregparam [ "&" keyregparams ]
keyregparam     = [ typeparam / votekeyparam / selkeyparam / sprfkeyparam / votefstparam / votelstparam / votekdparam / noteparam / feeparam / otherparam ]

> typeparam       = "type=keyref"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
typeparam       = "type=keyreg"
```

- selkeyparam: The selection key parameter to use in the transaction. Encoded with <a href="https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4648.html#section-5">base64url</a> encoding.

- sprfkeyparam: The state proof key parameter to use in the transaction. Encoded with <a href="https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4648.html#section-5">base64url</a> encoding.

- votefstparam: The first round valid parameter to use in the transaction.

- votelstparam: The last round valid parameter to use in the transaction.

- votekdparam: The key dilution key parameter to use in the transaction.

- xnote: As in [ARC-26](./arc-0026.md). A URL-encoded notes field value that must not be modifiable by the user when displayed to users.

- note: As in [ARC-26](./arc-0026.md). A URL-encoded default notes field value that the the user interface may optionally make editable by the user.

- fee: Optional. A static fee to set for the transaction in microAlgos. Useful to signal intent to receive participation incentives (e.g. with a 2,000,000 microAlgo transaction fee.)

- (others): optional, for future extensions

### Appendix

> This section contains encoding examples. The raw transaction object is presented along with the resulting ARC-26-K URI encoding.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section contains encoding examples. The raw transaction object is presented along with the resulting ARC-78 URI encoding.
```

#### Encoding with minimum fee

The following raw keyreg transaction:

```
{
  "txn": {
    "fee": 1000,
    "fv": 1345,
    "gh:b64": "kUt08LxeVAAGHnh4JoAoAMM9ql/hBwSoiFtlnKNeOxA=",
    "lv": 2345,
    "selkey:b64": "+lfw+Y04lTnllJfncgMjXuAePe8i8YyVeoR9c1Xi78c=",
    "snd:b64": "+gJAXOr2rkSCdPQ5DEBDLjn+iIptzLxB3oSMJdWMVyQ=",
    "sprfkey:b64": "3NoXc2sEWlvQZ7XIrwVJjgjM30ndhvwGgcqwKugk1u5W/iy/JITXrykuy0hUvAxbVv0njOgBPtGFsFif3yLJpg==",
    "type": "keyreg",
    "votefst": 1300,
    "votekd": 100,
    "votekey:b64": "UU8zLMrFVfZPnzbnL6ThAArXFsznV3TvFVAun2ONcEI=",
    "votelst": 11300
  }
}
```

> Will result in this ARC-26-K encoded URI:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Will result in this ARC-78 encoded URI:
```

Note the difference between base64 encoding in the raw object and base64url encoding in the URI parameters. For example, the selection key parameter `selkey` that begins with `+lfw+` in the raw object is encoded in base64url to `-lfw-`.

Note: Here, the fee is omitted from the URI (due to being set to the minimum 1,000 microAlgos.) When the fee is omitted, it is left up to the application or wallet to decide. This is for demonstrative purposes - the ARC-26-K standard does not require this behavior.

#### Encoding with custom fee and note

The following raw keyreg transaction:

```
{
  "txn": {
    "fee": 2000000,
    "fv": 1345,
    "gh:b64": "kUt08LxeVAAGHnh4JoAoAMM9ql/hBwSoiFtlnKNeOxA=",
    "lv": 2345,
    "note:b64": "Q29uc2Vuc3VzIHBhcnRpY2lwYXRpb24gZnR3",
    "selkey:b64": "+lfw+Y04lTnllJfncgMjXuAePe8i8YyVeoR9c1Xi78c=",
    "snd:b64": "+gJAXOr2rkSCdPQ5DEBDLjn+iIptzLxB3oSMJdWMVyQ=",
    "sprfkey:b64": "3NoXc2sEWlvQZ7XIrwVJjgjM30ndhvwGgcqwKugk1u5W/iy/JITXrykuy0hUvAxbVv0njOgBPtGFsFif3yLJpg==",
    "type": "keyreg",
    "votefst": 1300,
    "votekd": 100,
    "votekey:b64": "UU8zLMrFVfZPnzbnL6ThAArXFsznV3TvFVAun2ONcEI=",
    "votelst": 11300
  }
}
```

> Will result in this ARC-26-K encoded URI:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Will result in this ARC-78 encoded URI:
```
